So now, we're going to talk about AWS Step Functions.
And here's a few things that you need to know about AWS Step Functions.
First of all,
it enables orchestration of workflows through a fully managed service, and it
does this in a way that supports serverless architectures.
So this is one of the services that really enables this serverless
mindset where you're trying to limit the amount of actual
infrastructure that you have to own and maintain. Now it also can
support very complex workflows,
including error handling, and we'll see in a minute how you
define those workflows within the service.
Now you're charged per state transition,
along with any of the other AWS services that you leverage. Now in this case,
that might sound strange to you, but here's what that means.
If you have four steps in your workflow,
you're going to be charged for each transition from one step to another.
And then if that's running on a service like Lambda,
you'll be charged the normal rates for the Lambda services that you're using.
Now, workflows are defined using something called Amazon States Language. And
you don't need to know how to write States Language at all, but I want to give
you an example of how some of this would be defined.
Now,
let's say here that we wanted to get user signups and we
wanted to do some things simultaneously.
After we get the signup, we want to insert the data into our CRM,
and then we also want to send them a welcome email.
And then when we get done with that welcome email,
we want to schedule a call with one of our sales people.
Now, once all of that's done, we want to wait a week,
and then we want to send another follow up email to see how they're doing.
This is an example of what you can accomplish utilizing a
Step Function on AWS. And you see a very small portion of
how that's defined on the left.
This is using a format called JSON to define the Amazon States Language,
and this is what allows us to define the different steps within the workflow.
Now as I mentioned,
it does have a lot of integrations in to other AWS
services. So we have, for example, compute services like integrating with Lambda,
for example. It also can integrate with database services like DynamoDB,
which we'll talk more about later within this course. It also
can integrate in with the messaging services, meaning SQS and
SNS that we have just talked about.
Also,
data processing services, and even machine learning services. So
this is a powerful tool that you can use to build out very complex
workflows and have Amazon manage the state for you of the different steps within that workflow.